>> Jen Kramer: So once you've got
your GitHub desktop downloaded or
if it's still downloading,
you can continue on with this step.
So for step number three, we're gonna
create something called a repository.
And so, a repository is a place where
your files are going to be stored,
kind of like a folder or
a directory, okay?
So first of all,
make sure you're signed into GitHub.
Okay, so your screen here
should look like this, okay.
The next thing you're gonna do is
you're gonna add a repository,
there's a bunch of ways to do that.
One way to do it is down here,
there's a big green button that says
do repository, you can open that.
There's probably one
of the things up here.
Yeah, the plus sign up here
will give you a new repository.
They all go to the same place.
Choose one of those options.
And you should be at GitHub slash new,
okay?
Your screens gonna look
a tiny bit different from
mine because mine says the owner
is Jennifer Web, that's me.
That's gonna have your
username there instead.
And so, the way you're gonna wanna
configure this is just like this.
We're gonna make a new repository.
We're gonna call it
yourusername.github.io.
So in my case,
mine is Jenforweb.github.io.
Emma, what's your username?
>> Speaker 2: Moy.
>> Jen Kramer: Moy.github.io,
Ryan, what's your username?
>> Ryan: R6256.
>> Jen Kramer: R6256.github.io, okay, that
is what you wanna type in right there.
So, we're gonna go ahead and do that,
>> Jen Kramer: Okay,
mine is gonna give me an error because
I already have this repository.
But you are gonna go ahead and
type this in and
it's gonna not give you
an error cuz you don't, okay.
You're gonna go ahead and
type in a description.
I've said this is Jen's website on GitHub,
because that's what it is.
You are welcome to write
your own description.
You're gonna go ahead and
make this a public website.
>> Jen Kramer: The private option costs
money, the public option is free.
You can uncheck initialize this repository
with a read me, you can go back and
add one later, don't worry about it for
the right now.
And then go ahead and
click on create repository.
So in other words, what we are doing in
this step is we're creating a space on
GitHub for our website to go.
Okay, we're just creating a space on
GitHub where our website is going to go,
just go ahead and get that configured.
So once you've gone ahead and
created that repository up on GitHub,
we're gonna set up the repository
in GitHub Desktop.
So what we've done now is we've created
that repository somewhere out there.
That's where the website is gonna go.
Now we're gonna create a repository on
the computer that's in front of you.
And then shockingly, we'll connect these
and make them talk to each other, okay?
So, we're gonna go ahead and set up
this repository in the following way.
There should be,
in the next screen right on GitHub,
after you've gone ahead and
created your repository.
You click the Create a repository button,
there is the screen here.
So you should be able to click on that
button that says, Setup in Desktop.
Just go ahead and click that button.
That will go ahead and
put you in GitHub Desktop.
And you should see an opening
configuration screen just like this.
So once you went ahead and
clicked on that setup and
desktop button, you'll get this screen.
Click on Sign into github.com.
Enter your username and password and
whatever else they asked for.
>> Jen Kramer: So that's where we
are in the notes, we're at step four.
Follow these three screenshots,
that's what you should be seeing, okay?
Okay, so once you got that done,
we're gonna go on here.
Now that you're in GitHub Desktop,
the screen should be filled out for
you on the URL tab.
You're gonna choose a desktop, choose
the desktop for your local path, and
it will create a new folder for
you on the desktop.
So in other words,
it's gonna ask you for your local path.
Go ahead and
click on your choose button here.
Navigate to your desktop of your computer,
select it, and
GitHub is gonna go ahead and
create a new folder for you.
In this case, my folder will be called
Jenforwebgithub.io, does that make sense?
Go on ahead and do that.
So you're basically creating a folder
on your desktop using this methodology.
It's kinda weird, but that's okay.
>> Jen Kramer: Or as it says down at the
bottom, alternatively, you can drag and
drop a local repository here to add it.
That would be the other thing to do.
So step five is this, that folder that
GitHub just made for you on your desktop,
you need to make sure it has stuff in it
that you'd like to put up online, okay.
That only makes sense, right?
So, you have been coding a bunch
of stuff over the last few days.
You wanna put some of that
stuff into that GitHub folder.
Now here's where things are gonna break,
okay.
So you created for
example, a form yesterday,
that form has images,
it has JavaScript and it has HTML.
All of that together, all of those things,
the folder for your images,
the folder for your JavaScript, the folder
for your CSS, and the HTML file,
all of that has got to get copied into
your GitHub.io folder on your desktop.
Go ahead and copy it wherever
you've kept it to this point.
Copy it,
paste it into the GitHub.io folder, okay?
If you don't get all the things,
you forget the images,
you forget the JavaScript, you forget
the CSS, guess what will happen?
[SOUND] All right, it'll look weird,
cuz it lost all its formatting.
It'll look weird,
cuz the images aren't there.
The form doesn't submit anywhere, because
you don't have the JavaScript, okay?
Make sure you have all the things, and you
copy them all into that GitHub.io folder.
So we're gonna go ahead and take a break,
while you go about doing that.
Deciding what it is you wanna go ahead and
post on stuff on GitHub.
Just go ahead and
make copies of the stuff.
Leave it wherever it is right now and
working.
Make a copy into that GitHub folder.
So, that's step five.
You've gone ahead and you've gotten
everything into your GitHub.io folder,
whatever it is that you wanna
put up online first, okay?
And so now what you're gonna do
here in GitHub.io, I went ahead and
took some of my form files from yesterday.
And you'll notice that down here
at the bottom of these files,
there is this sort of area down here which
has it says, summary and description.
These are notes for what's called
a commit that you're about to make.
So, what you're going to be doing
is copying these files on up into
GitHub itself out there on the Internet.
And because GitHub is primarily used for
tracking code and
tracking the changes to code over time.
It's nice to make a note
about what you have done and
why you decided to send these
up to the server again.
So usually in this case, cuz this is
the first time this stuff is going up,
usually it's called something like
initial commit, something like that.
You can of course be more specific than
that, there's a box here for description.
You can write it all in, GitHub
training at front of masters boot camp.
This is my forum from day four,
blah, blah, blah, blah,
whatever it is you wanna say.
So once you're done though,
once you're done going ahead and
writing that note,
>> Jen Kramer: Then
you're gonna click on commit to master and
publish branch, two clicks,
two clicks, two clicks.
Very, very important, two clicks.
It should be one but it's not,
if you only do one click,
it won't work, ask me how I know.
Okay, so commit to master and
then publish branch.
So let's go ahead and do that now.
Once you have your note in place,
you'll click on that commit and
sync master button.
>> Jen Kramer: And
then it might give you this,
this little drop down here that
says published repository.
If not, there's a button up here in the
upper right hand corner that says publish,
going ahead and publish from that.
Okay, critical to go ahead and do both.
Okay, try again.
Mind blew up, I have no idea why,
hopefully yours work, did yours work?
>> Speaker 4: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jen Kramer: Yes,
it looks like everything just went away,
you see over there on the side,
it looks like all your files disappeared.
They didn't,
they should have been copied up to
wherever it is that you've sent them.
And so it will look like you have
nothing left over here on this side,
it will look like you have
nothing left over here.
>> Jen Kramer: I have
no idea why mine broke.
If anybody has any ideas, that would
be great to know, but, yeah, okay.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so now, once you've
done that then you can go ahead and
take a look at your browser window.
So we're gonna go to, in my case,
Jenforwebgithub.io, all right?
And if we just go there that much,
you may or may not see anything at all.
I actually have a file called index.html.
Which just had still working on it,
really cuz this is me testing stuff, okay?
If you sent up an html page
called blitz says, forms.html,
it would be jenforweb.github.io/form or
forms.html, whatever
the name of that file was.
I'm getting a 404 because I had
an error sending up my stuff.
Emma, I'm sure yours work,
what's your address here.
>> Emma: So mine is, emmay.github.io,
and then I put mine in
a folder called abduction.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, slash abduction.
All right, uh-huh.
>> Emma: And then that's it.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so
this is Emma's page, and it works.
So you can see her address
here is emmay.github.io,
and she put everything into
a folder called abduction.
So that abduction folder has got the CSS
folder, it's got the JavaScript folder,
it's got our HTML in it.
It's got all of her images in it.
And she called her web page here,
she called it index.html.
And so, it will show up just like that
with just the folder name after GitHub.io.
You can of course also put in index.html.
The web server is configured such that
it looks for a file called index.HTML.
If it finds one, it'll display it for
you without you having to type that in.
>> Emma: Do you like the font
that I found, [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jen Kramer: I love the font that you
found, that's very appropriate.
Your font looks fabulous.